<h3>Orwell was right after all</h3>
By entering this website, we’ve already been able to discover where you live and what your IP address is… scary isn’t it? One might expect tech nerds to be able to set such a system up, but it turns out it’s way easier than one could ever dare imagine. It just takes some Googling and YouTube videos. Add a computer to that, and you’re all set. The easiness with which the creation of such a site can be achieved is mindblowing and made us wonder if it was as simple to spy on citizens for the Party in 1984.

It all boils down to the crimestop principle the Party has invented: crimes need to be prevented, the thought of committing a crime needs to be rid of before the act itself takes place. With modern technology and absolute control over society similar to the Party’s, it wouldn’t be too tough a challenge. But in 1984, no such devices exist, therefore there need to be different means to accomplish the aim of crimestop. And for that they invented ‘telescreens’ and ‘Newspeak’.

Telescreens serve similar a purpose to this site actually; just imagine a webcam constantly being pointed at you, wherever you are, but most importantly: you’d have no idea who was at the other end of the cam and when that person would be watching. We’re in a situation much like 1984’s when it comes to privacy. Our internet providers are aware of our location every time we use our phones and in that sense Orwell’s ‘prediction’ has come true – privacy is nowhere to be found.

But it’s all really at the unique technique the Party makes use of: the control of vocabulary, also called Newspeak. The crux of it is to remove words that are unnecessary and unorthodox. Who needs ‘bad’ when the opposite of ‘good’ might as well be ‘ungood’ anyway right? When words are done away with carefully, the idea surrounding them doesn’t exist anymore either. It’s the same as you probably having been oblivious of this website’s ability to track your computer had you not been informed of it, ever since your unawareness lead to you not having second thoughts about it; you’re not actively thinking about what a site can discover as soon as you access it.

So by coming here you’ve confirmed Orwell’s prophecy that the concept of privacy is slowly starting to fade away, and it starts with our own failure to realise we could be spied upon every second of our lives ever since it is so effortlessly carried out – in this case even by a group of teenagers. The only advise we can give you is to be a little less eager to click links you’ve been sent by seemingly innocent people. Being too trustworthy on the Internet means you’re in for some trouble…
